# Gene Pool

In Gene Pool you evolve genes into cells and cells into organisms. Each time you
evolve you lose old bonuses, but gain new, more powerful ones. Just watch out
for mutations!

## Goal

Be the first to evolve 3 organisms.

## Set up

Place the 5 organisms in a row, face up, in the center of the table. Each player
gets 3 cards. The remaining cards are placed on the table as the draw stack, aka
"the gene pool." Make room for a discard pile too.

Each player needs room for 3 rows of cards in front of them -- their organisms,
cells, and genes. Each player also needs room to the side for mutations.

## How to play

On your turn you may make as many plays as possible as follows:

### Genes

You may play any card from your hand to the table _face down_ as a "gene."

### Cells

In order to pay a card from your hand to the table _face up_ as a "cell," you
must pay the cost shown on the cell card by discarding that many tabled genes
(minus any cost discount bonuses).

Some cells are adapted to survive in special environments: water, heat, or cold.
Some cells also include bonuses (discussed below). A few cell cards count as two
cells.

### Organisms

You may claim an organism from the center and add it to your tabled cards by
discarding the number of tabled cells shown as its cost. Each organisms costs a
specific number of cells, and most require some cells with specific adaptations.

Organisms also have bonuses. You need to collect 3 organisms to win the game.

## Ending your turn

Finish your turn by drawing one card (plus any any bonus draws) up to your
current hand limit. The hand limit starts at 3 cards, but each organism you
claim adds 1 to your hand limit, so if you have 1 organism your hand limit is 4,
and if you have 2 organisms your hand limit is 5.

If you run out of cards in the gene pool, shuffle the discard pile to replace
it.

## Bonuses

Some cards include one or more bonuses. The 2 primary bonuses are:

_Cell cost discounts_ - Reduces the number of tabled genes you must discard to
play a cell. Some discounts apply only to cells with a specific adaptation. You
can add up multiple discount bonuses, but you must pay a minimum of 1 gene to
play a cell.

_Additional draws_ - Lets you draw cards in addition to the 1 card you normally
draw at the end of your turn. You can add up multiple draw bonuses, but you
cannot draw over your hand limit.

Some cards have special bonuses described on the card.

## Mutations

The gene pool has a few mutation cards, which must be played to the table
immediately when you draw them (or at the beginning of the game). Each mutation
has a specific variation to the normal rules which applies to you for the entire
game. Mutations count as a draw, but don't count against your hand limit.
